Brothers and sisters, welcome to this update.
No doubt we're all still thinking about the memorial of Christ's death and the great love
that Jehovah and Jesus have shown.
And it was so good that many of us were able to be together in person for this most important
occasion of the year.
Were you excited when you heard that we would resume in-person meetings worldwide on April
1st?
The governing body really felt Jehovah's direction when making that decision.
And we were excited to share it, less than two hours after our meeting, the breaking
news was posted.
Luckily, you can identify with the feelings of our brothers and sisters in the following
video.
Now going back to the kingdom hall, it's wonderful seeing the brothers and sisters, hugging them,
it's emotional.
Clearly, Jehovah knows what we need.
I'm very excited and happy to be here hearing everybody's comments.
Well, my stomach was in marks this morning, but right now I'm really excited and happy
that we're all here.
For Jehovah's people to get back to worship together at meetings, talk about a spiritual
paradise.
Seeing one another face to face, or more accurately, mask to mask, after so long, was wonderful.
Bringing together, praying together, meeting new ones in person, all of this is so refreshing.
One seven year old girl said, I have never been more patient in my life than waiting to go
back to the kingdom hall for two years.
I return to the kingdom hall has been possible because in many ways we're in another phase
of the pandemic.
Now that there is a high rate of vaccination and new treatments are becoming available,
many governments have relaxed restrictions.
In various parts of the world, life is somewhat returning to normal.
What does it mean?
We're all learning to live with COVID-19 while still taking reasonable precautions.
In time we look forward to being able to resume additional theoretic activities.
Now for the rest of our update, we're going to talk about the situation in Ukraine and
Russia.
How are our brothers and sisters in those countries doing?
How can we cope with any anxiety we may feel about the situation?
I'm sure we've all appreciated the timely updates on JW.org.
Our brothers and sisters in Eastern Europe have had a wonderful share in the ministry
despite war and the pandemic.
We are deeply touched by their godly devotion.
The branch office in Ukraine is functioning and actively assisting tens of thousands
of refugees.
The branch reports that as of Monday April 18, over 42,000 of our brothers and sisters
in Ukraine have been displaced.
Most in 19,000 have chosen to flee to other countries.
We are deeply saddened to report that 32 brothers and sisters have died.
How should we view this situation?
Recall Jesus' words when he described the sign of his presence as recorded at Matthew
24-6.
He said, You are going to hear of wars and reports of wars.
Some Bible scholars say that this means wars that are nearby and wars that are in distant
places.
One translation says, You are going to hear the noise of battles close by and the news
of battles far away.
And that's true today.
Some of us are hearing the sounds of war nearby, others are hearing of wars in distant lands.
These news reports often involve graphic pictures of bloodshed.
At times it seems like we are right there in the middle of the battle.
Additionally, we see and hear reports of how our brothers are affected.
How do you feel?
We are overwhelmed, shocked, angry, traumatized.
We feel the pain of our brothers and sisters.
At times we may even ask, Why does Jehovah allow this?
It's only natural to feel that way, but we need to be careful.
What did Jesus say?
The rest of Matthew 24-6 says, See that you are not alarmed.
For these things must take place, but the end is not yet.
Do not be alarmed.
Or as another translation says, Take care not to be scared out of your wits.
And another says, Be sure that you don't get upset.
What will help us not to be alarmed?
Here are four points.
First one, Remember why Jehovah permits our brothers to be affected by war.
Think of Job's example.
At Job 1-10 Satan complained to Jehovah.
Have you not put up a protective hedge around him and his house and everything he has?
Satan claimed that Job, and by extension all humans, served Jehovah only for selfish reasons.
Jehovah allowed Job to lose everything.
And yet Job kept his integrity and proved Satan a liar.
The same is true today.
Some of our dear brothers and sisters have lost everything.
They are homes, their possessions, their jobs, and even their loved ones, as they have
fled the conflict.
But as our brothers and sisters remain loyal to Jehovah, despite war and other hardships,
they give a loud reply to Satan's taunts about Jehovah's sovereignty.
Second, We need to be realistic in our expectations.
Recall that in the first century, Stephen and James were executed.
Jesus disciples fled Jerusalem and lost their possessions.
These types of things have already happened since 1914.
Some of us have been born in a generation where we have not witnessed firsthand the effects
of war.
And yet many of our brothers and sisters have had to live through wars and civil unrest
of all sorts.
And some in various places are experiencing it now.
But how encouraging to consider that so many have faithfully and successfully endured
such challenging times.
Of course, the fact that we see these events occurring is evidence that Jehovah will soon
intervene and put an end to all these wicked things we see in the world today.
As one brother said, the disciples weren't asking because they wanted to know when these
things would get really bad.
They wanted to know when was the solution?
When was the fix going to come?
Third, we remember that this is an opportunity to show our trust in Jehovah.
This reminds me of an experience of a couple in Japan who had lost everything in a flood.
They said, we thought that we trusted in Jehovah before.
But now we really know what it means.
And as one missionary commented, it's not until your back is against the wall that you
see Jehovah's hand.
So we keep in mind the words recorded at Isaiah 30 and verse 15.
Your strength will be in keeping calm and showing trust.
Yes, we remain calm and show our trust in Jehovah.
We have absolute confidence that he knows our brothers needs and will care for them.
As our 2022 year text Psalm 3410 reminds us, those seeking Jehovah will act nothing good.
This we could illustrate this with a caregiving situation.
When we are caring for a loved one who is suffering, it can be harder than if we were the one
suffering.
Why is that?
Because when we are the one suffering a problem and we rely on Jehovah, we experience the
peace that only he can provide.
So for the caregiver of observing it, it can be much harder.
The caregiver's imagination can run wild with all the problems and worries and what ifs.
Do we see the point?
When it comes to our brothers and sisters who are affected by the war in Eastern Europe,
we are much like a caregiver.
We can send about them, but that's different than actually being in the situation.
Jehovah gives his Holy Spirit according to the actual need.
So we're sure that Jehovah is providing just what our brothers and sisters in Eastern
Europe need at this time.
When we remember this, it can help us to cope with our anxiety.
What's the fourth point that can help us?
We must remain neutral.
We realize that many news reports may be propaganda that's designed and slanted to motivate
listeners to take sides.
How do we respond when we hear such reports?
We safeguard our hearts and minds, realizing that all human governments will soon be replaced
by God's kingdom.
We know that no human efforts can bring true peace and security to the earth.
Only God's kingdom can and will do so.
Therefore, our hearts and minds are devoted to that kingdom.
We've discussed four things that can help us not to be terrified by the events in Eastern
Europe.
We remember why Jehovah allows these things?
We keep realistic expectations.
We show our trust in Jehovah and we remain neutral.
Let us hope some of our brothers and sisters to deal successfully with hearing of wars
and reports of wars.
Let's watch the following video.
While reading the news about the horrific effects of the bombings, I felt cut to the heart.
Feelings of powerlessness and helplessness overwhelmed me.
When you feel overwhelmed by all the news reports on the war, you pretty much get pulled
into everything that's happening.
It definitely affects you and your thinking.
In your neutrality can really be put to the test.
My family lives in Ukraine, so from the beginning of the war, I was worried about their safety.
To keep up to date with what was happening with them, I tried to call them every day.
What I learned from them affected me a lot and it didn't allow me to think calmly about
the situation.
I was moved by the stories of our brothers who had to flee their homes with their children
in order to save their lives.
I have found that reading the Bible often works well for me.
I read it in the morning, during the day, and before going to bed.
It removes negative images and emotions from my mind, and more importantly, it often
allows me, so to speak, to hear God's voice and regain my emotional balance.
I tried to reflect on how Jehovah had protected his servants in the past.
I also imagined the times described in Psalm 46 verse 9, which says that Jehovah is bringing
an end to wars throughout the earth.
This verse reinforces my belief that soon Jehovah will destroy all weapons, and there
will be peace in all the earth.
I tried to pray about specific individuals.
It helps me to be more effective in giving practical help.
I've made a real effort to follow less news on the war.
What has really helped is following the news releases on our website, JW.org, about
brothers and sisters from different countries, not just Ukraine and Russia.
Their example of neutrality and loyalty has also helped me to keep my focus.
A lot of things convince me that the only solution is God's kingdom.
First of all, the stark contrast between Jehovah's people and the people who do not believe
in him.
There's no prejudice, no injustice.
We're motivated by love for each other, and it's beautiful to see that in every country.
We don't get carried away with our own different backgrounds.
It's beautiful to see that it's possible even now.
I'm sure that Jehovah, by means of his kingdom, once and is able to undo all the harm that
results from human rule, I'm convinced that only God's kingdom can provide a lasting
solution to all problems.
I fully believe in what Jehovah says, because it's always true.
Soon when God's kingdom rules over the whole earth, then we'll really enjoy peace.
Did you notice how they cope with the trauma of news reports?
They focus on God's kingdom as a solution.
They limit the amount of news they consume, meditate on how Jehovah has helped his servants
in the past, pray frequently, and focus on the time when there will be no more war,
but instead lasting peace.
No doubt these same things will help us too.
Jehovah understands that we need not only physical support, but also emotional support.
For example, think about the latest The Wake magazine entitled A World in Turmoil How
You Can Cope.
It highlights how you can protect your health, livelihood, relationships, and your hope.
And for each of these topics, it includes helpful tips.
That is food at the proper time.
In the midst of all this turmoil in Eastern Europe, it has been so encouraging to hear
of the generosity of our brothers and sisters in nearby lands.
Tens of thousands have offered accommodations to those who are displaced.
Many are helping with relief efforts, whether it is assisting those who arrive at border
crossings, at relief centers, or providing food and other basic items.
As of their proximity to Ukraine, our brothers in Hungary, Moldova, Poland, Romania, Slovakia,
and other lands have been very busy in coordinating relief efforts in their branch territories.
And many are working hard to help our refugee brothers and sisters to get settled and
back on their feet.
We continue to keep all you dear brothers and sisters in our prayers.
As we have discussed, we do not need to be alarmed by wars and reports of wars.
Rather, we have full confidence that Jehovah will continue to care for his precious sheep.
From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.